# 10.2.06 Assign: WASD
```
10.2.06 Assign: WASD
```
## Model
```javascript
// Model: Handles the data


let sprite = {


} // this is called an object, it can store all the data for your sprite
```
> [!NOTE]
> ## INFODUMP:
>
> An **object** is a way to store multiple related values in one variable. 
> Think of it as a little bundle of information about something, all grouped together.
>
> ```javascript
> let dog = {
>  name: "Buddy",
>  age: 3,
>  breed: "Labrador",
>  goodBoy: true
> }
> ```
>
> You can use dot notation to access or change the information:
>
> ```javascript
> text(dog.name, 100, 100); // Shows "Buddy"
> dog.age+=1;                // Now the dog is 4
> ```
>
> ### Why Use Objects?
> - Keeps all related info in one place 
> - Makes your code cleaner and more readable 
> - Useful for organizing characters, sprites, enemies, buttons, etc. 


## View
```javascript
// View: Handles the rendering
function setup() {
 createCanvas(400, 400);
rectMode(CENTER)
imageMode(CENTER)
}


function draw() {
 background(220);

 // rect(x, y, 50, 50);
  // lets make an if() here to wrap around.
}
```


## Controller
```javascript
// Controller: Handles the user input
function keyPressed() {
 // Check for key presses and update the block's position
 if (key === 'w') { // W key
    // How do we move the square using grade 1 math?
 } // end W




} // end key pressed
```


## Part 0: The Setup


Create an **object** called `sprite = {}` in the global variables section.
 * you will need `cx`,`cy`,`speed`


Set the window size to `300, 300`. <- why? so it is quicker for me to mark.

---

## Part 1: Basic Movement (60%)

1. Draw a small square on the screen (about 20x20).
  Don’t hardcode its position, instead, store the x and y values as variables inside your sprite object: `sprite.cx`, `sprite.cy`, etc.

2. Write code so the sprite can be moved using both:
   * The arrow keys
     * **hint** remeber `keyCode`
   * The WASD keys (upper and lower case)
     *  **hint** remember to use or `||` to make your code easier to read.

3. Make the square wrap around the screen edges.
  For example, if it goes off the right edge, it should reappear on the left. Same for top and bottom.

> [!TIP]
>  ```js
>   if (sprite.cx is bigger than the width of the canvas) {
>    sprite.cx resets to 0
>   }
>   ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **CHECK IN:**
> At this point, your square should only move **once per keypress**.



## Next 20%: Adding in extras


1. Add a red rectangle across the **top** of the screen that is 40 pixels tall.
  (The top 40 pixels of the screen should be entirely red.)


2. If your sprite is touching this red box, display a warning message **inside the red zone**:


     > "Warning: Entering Enemy Territory. Proceed with caution."


3. Once everything else is complete and functional:
   * Add a background image
   * A sprite image instead of a rectangle
     * There are free sprites [here](https://opengameart.org/content/avatar)
   * The Danger zone needs to be "decorated" in some fashion. Your choice. 


4. Research how to make the square move **continuously** instead of one step at a time.
   * (Hint you will need to break MVC for this part)
      * aka you need to move where the `if` blocks are located

## Next 10%: Add a Power-Up


1. Add a variable to your `sprite` object that controls how fast/how many pixels the sprite moves.
2. When the user presses the `p` key, increase the speed:
    * After pressing `p`, the sprite should move farther with each arrow or WASD press.
    * You can choose to let `p` keep increasing the speed every time it’s pressed, **or** allow just one increase.


## **Final 10%: Collision Detection Using `dist()`**

1. **Draw three different shapes** somewhere on the canvas.
2. **Use `dist()`** to measure the distance between the sprite’s hit point and each shape’s center.
3. **Use `if` statements** to check whether the distance is small enough to count as a collision.
4. **Make each collision do something visible** so you can prove it works.

---
## Challenge: Not for Marks
See if you can find code online to act as a timer.  Five seconds after you press the `p` key, your speed returns to normal.
 * you will probably need to use `millis()`
