# 10.1.03 Assign: Adding Text
```
10.1.03 Assign: Adding Text
```
> [!NOTE]
> ## This starter code is broken until you complete TODO Part 1 Step 3.
> 


**Goal:** Create text and make it move across the screen.


**Extra Help:**


* [Variables Basics](https://thecodingtrain.com/tracks/code-programming-with-p5-js/code/2-variables/2-define-variables)
* [Incrementation](https://thecodingtrain.com/tracks/code-programming-with-p5-js/code/2-variables/3-incrementation)
* [Conditionals (`if()`)](https://thecodingtrain.com/tracks/code-programming-with-p5-js/code/3-conditionals/1-conditionals)


---


## **TODO**
> [!TIP]
> Shortcut to uncomment: `CTR: + /`
> 
> Shortcut to play: `ctrl+ENTER`

### **Part 1: Basic Setup (60%)**


1. Create a new file named exactly `10.1.03 Assign: Adding Text`.
 * Remember to use the copy paste button from the block at the top
2. Copy the **starter code** from the bottom of this document.
3. In `createCanvas(x, y)`, set:


  * `x = 600`
  * `y = 400`
4. Set `background()` to an RGB colour of your choice.
5. Add a `rect()` in the **middle of the screen**.
6. Inside the rectangle, add:


   >  ```js
   > text("WORDS GO HERE", x, y);
   >  ```


    * Replace `"WORDS GO HERE"` with almost any text you like.
7. In `setup()`, use `textSize()` to make the text **big**.
8. Add `noStroke()` before the rectangle.


  * Comment on line one: `// what does noStroke() do?`
9. Use `fill()` before the `text()` to change the **colour of the text only**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Strings are a data type.
> * A data type defines **how the computer stores the value** and **what you’re allowed to do with it**.
>   * numbers can be added, but text cannot.
> * A **string** is the data type used for **text**, any sequence of characters inside quotes.
>      *  `"hello"`, `"123"`, and `"No, this is Patrick!"` are all strings.

---


### **Part 2: Movement Logic (10%)**


10. Change the `x` position of your text to the variable `textX`.
11. Make the text move from **left to right** across the screen:
   ```js
   textX += 5// Moves text horizontally
   ```


---


### **Part 3: Conditional Logic (10%)**


12. Reset the `textX` when it leaves the right side of the canvas using an `if` statement.
   * hint... how big is your canvas?
   * if your text goes off the canvas, reset it to the other side


**Broken code you need to fix:**


  >  ```javascript
  > if (textX < -250) { // You need to fix the math in side the () 
  >    textX = 0; // Reset the textX position
  >    print("too far to the right");
  > } // end if
  >  ```


* Fix the condition so the text **resets when it goes off the right side**.
   <details>
   <summary>Super secret hint, click here</summary>
   if ( your textX gets bigger than the canvas) {


       Reset the textX position to the other side of the screen
     } // end if
  
   </details>

---


### **Part 4: Advanced Logic (10%)**


1. Create a **new variable** at the top of your code called `textY`.
2. Add a **second line of `text()`** that starts at the **bottom-left corner**.
3. Make this text move **diagonally upward** to the **top-right corner** using `textX` and `textY` variables.


---


## **Starter Code**
copy and paste using the fancy dancy button


```javascript
let textX = 250;


function setup() {
 createCanvas();
 textSize(12);
} // end setup


function draw() {
 background(255);
 } // end draw
```


---
